Let us see what are the arithmetic operations allowed on pointers.
So I'll take an example and through example I will explain you suppose I have an array int a of size of
five and with some elements that is 2 4 6 8 10
I have some elements here and then I will take one pointer P and this
I will make it point on this array so I will draw a diagram medically and show you.
This is an array
the indices are, suppose  the addresses are
200 and 201, two and three four and five.
Two hundred and six and seven, two hundred and eight and nine.
These are the addresses and also I have a pointer P.
So this P is a pointer which is having address 200 because I have assigned A.
So pointer  is pointing to A. pointer is pointing to the beginning address of A.
Now I can access this array by name A as well as with the help of pointer.
So I will right on the elements also here.
Two four six eight 10.
Let us see what other operations allowed using pointers so there are total five operations allowed using
pointers.
So the first operation, I can say P plus plus, what does it mean, pointer will move to next location.
So what is the address inside the pointer 200.
Then it will move to next location.
I will not write the box and show you, then it will move to the location here.
That is 202 how. P was 200 then
P++ means it should become two hundred and one.
No here.
Plus plus we  don't mean adding one to the address we mean move to the next location.
Just like when we C it's a C language when he says C++ it doesn't mean that we want to add a one
to C language.
We want to move to the next step in C and that is object oriented C language.
That's how plus plus means next not plus one.
So that's how the meaning we make.
So when you say p++ pointer will move to the next location.
So this is one of the operation, suite thingo it means you can move the pointer forward.
It is a integer pointer so it has incremented by two, when it was 200 then it became 202,  if
it was float pointer then it will move by 4 bytes because float takes four bytes if it is a character
pointer then it will move by one byte so, how many bytes pointer will move forward.
when you say ++ it depends on the data type of a pointer.
So that's how the data type is useful here.
When you perform pointer arithmetic, then plus plus means pointer is moving forward.
So can you say P minus minus.
Yes.
pointer will move backward.
If right now suppose it is on 202  and it will come on 200.
So just how
plus plus work.
Similarly minus minus works. then other operation 3rd operation, can I add some constant a value to a
pointer.
And again I will assign it to P only, can I say p+2
Yes I can. suppose the pointer is pointing on 202 right now.
Then if you say P assign p+2, then it will move by two integers 2 elements 1 2.
So where the pointer will go now? pointer will be  pointing on 206.
So this will move the pointer forward by two elements.
So same way, P assign P minus two then move the pointer backward by two elements.
So here you can write on some constant value two or three or 200.
Any number you can write.
So these are the four operations that are allowed on the pointer.
No fifth operation I will show you.
Suppose I have a pointer P that is pointing on two hundred.
Again I have one more pointer that is q that is pointing on two hundred and six.
Assume this one so I will declare it here integer star q that is pointing on & A[3].
So it's pointing on two hundred and six.
Now see this I can say q minus p and take it in some variable.
D So this is the fifth operation.
So what is the result.
What happens when you subtract two pointers Q minus P.
That is 206 minus two hundred.
This will give six but it divided by two.
What is that why we are dividing it by 2.
Because these are integers and their sizes are 2.
So answer it is what 3.
So what is this 3.
This shows that this pointer is three elements away.
From this point.
So we get to know the distance between two pointers.
So this gives the distance between two pointers or the number of elements in between two pointers.
How many elements are away from one another.
So actually addresses subtracted.
day difference is divided by the size of the data type.
Then that's all we get done number of elements between them.
Now one morequestion is what if
I write 200 minus 206.
Then will it not be  minus six by 2 and the minus three.
That happens when I say instead of Q minus P.
If I say a P minus Q Then what is the result.
Yes I get from minus 3 only.
And this gives the meaning that minus means what this point is nearer and this point is farther
...
So with this negative you can also know weather.
which point is first and  which point is next.
If I'm getting positive result then it means the first point is far away.
If I'm getting negative result, then it means the second point  is farther, and this is the
difference.
So that's all only 5 arithmetic operations are allowed on the pointer.
Apart from this you cannot perform any operation like addition of 2 pointers or multiplication division because
that doesn't make any sense.
Like here.
Plus plus was making sense that you go to the next element and minus minus.
It was making sense that you come back to the previous element or move this element away in forward
and backward then give the difference between two pointers.
These are making sense so that's the reason only  these five operations are there now I made it very clearly
here.
Otherwise the pointer topic is very confusing.
If you believe that there may be other operations also you will get confduse. these are the only 5operation
and these are there meanings that's all.
We have learn completely about the syntax of pointers then how to use them and how they are working with
the help of adresses.
I'll show you using programs. so practically I will show you.